# No Meat Week (1st Week of March)

A couple of months ago, on December 10th, I wrote [this post ](https://blogofjake.com/2019/12/10/no-meat-week/)after trying Beyond Meat's plant-based sausage for the first time. I declared the first full week of March 2020 No Meat Week, and even if no one else was going to do it with me, I wrote that I would not be eating any meat that week.

The first full week of March is now upon us and I could have never foreseen at that time how totally prepared I would be. I had no idea at the time, but several weeks after that post, following a visit to the vegan capital of the world (Tel Aviv) and a few other small and somewhat synchronous happenings, I began experimenting with the weekday gluten-free vegan diet that I first introduced in [this post](https://blogofjake.com/2020/01/21/the-gluten-free-vegan-diet-intermittent-fasting-and-green-smoothies/), provided an update on in [this one](https://blogofjake.com/2020/02/10/updated-eating-practices-places-to-eat-in-nyc/), and have now practiced for the last seven weeks without any signs of stopping.

I generally believe that people do not experiment with things nearly as much as they should. If we never try things, how are we ever supposed to know what they are like? In the spirit of experimentation, I would be honored if you would join me in recognizing No Meat Week and making this one week commitment to a meatless diet. You don't have to go full vegan mode (cutting milk, eggs, etc.). You can have a cheat meal or two if you need. You can do Sunday through Saturday like I will be doing or Monday through Sunday if you prefer. You can even just do the five weekdays if you like, the way I have been doing for the last several weeks which I have found to be very sustainable. Regardless, I wish you the best of luck if you try it and would be glad to hear from you via [email ](jake@blogofjake.com)if you do. Tell a friend to tell a friend. Even if it is only to find out that you are never going to eat a meatless meal again, I think you will find it to be a worthwhile experiment.

Have a nice weekend and treat yourself to some good eats ahead of this week without meats.
