# What Israel Thinks of Trump

Israel has a lot of reasons to like the United States. The two countries share a lot of the same values. Americans are mostly pro-Israel. America gives Israel 3 billion dollars each year, which is more than America gives the next 7 countries combined.

These facts are what is so surprising about seeing [this image](https://2wr7x63bwh0q42yujx1j8e8g9k8z-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-file-download/tn-1019895_506205290014463_1938492902614205263_o.jpg).

This viral image shows an Israeli website celebrating the death of Alison. Alison is an American drone strike victim and an Iranian terrorist general. The website is celebrating what it calls "America's Kill."

It is not the first time something like this extemely anti-American has happened in Israel. Shortly after the tragic events of September 11th, 2001, the New York Times reported that a website in Israel [was calling the attacks "good news." ](https://www.nytimes.com/2001/09/13/international/13ISRA.html)When I searched for the original article, I found it was paywalled after two weeks. I was able to find a different one ([link](https://www.cnn.com/2001/WORLD/europe/09/12/attack.mosque/index.html)) referencing how "Israelis [were] dancing in the streets."

This is an interesting [Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reactions_to_the_September_11_attacks) if you want to find more about all of the other reactions in the world that day. Many of them, if not most, were expressions of sympathy, horror, and regret. Images of people celebrating in the streets are few and far between.

In fact, the only other image I have seen of this variety outside of Israel is in Palestine. Here is some video from Gaza in June that [may or may not have been](https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-middle-east-44656836/gas-explosions-in-gaza-will-the-party-last) celebrating Iran.]

It seems that the people of Israel are very happy with the new U.S. president, yet this website looks like it is run by a bunch of 12-year-olds. I feel like this is a trend that can not be coincidental. It makes me wonder why more Elites from 'The Left' in America are not supportive of the things Iran is doing. It makes me question if these protests, violence, and values you would expect to see from a people who is ruled by a cruel, totalitarian, dictator, don't really represent the values of the masses, but rather a militant slice of the population blatantly taking advantage of the remaining good nature of the rest of the people and winning because a child cannot fight a monster.

One piece of evidence that goes against the trend that I have been presenting is [this clip](https://www.instagram.com/p/BsABP7TLMnE/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link) from a news interview I saw almost a year ago. The interview was with a Palestinian man. He raised money from people at his college in the United States to pay for his trip from New York back to Gaza so he could kill himself to blow up people in Israel. Had he been successful, Zaher would have killed all the people he needed to in order to get to his heaven of 72 beautiful virgins. But he was not successful, and here he was being interviewed. In the interview, Zaher said "I was fighting for my people's freedom and I would still fight whatever and however and whenever I could."

Virtually all Zander's music is pro-Palestinian. One of my best friends is Palestinian. I have been sympathetic to Palestinians in the long-believed story that they were naturally living on the land now called Israel for thousands of years before being taken away after World War II. The more I learn though, the less sympathetic I find I have become, and it's for the reasons I have said above and for different ones as well. If you would show me a person born in both the Gaza Strip and in the West Bank and one in Tel Aviv, I am not here to say that I know which one is going to end up being a better person or anything like that. However, I believe that the chances are statistically greater that the person born in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip ends up growing up to want to bomb a bus or go on a shooting spree in the streets.  We are looking at terrorist attacks occurring in Israel almost weekly these days (again I apologize for not being pro-Iranian if I have not made it obvious already; the man on the right side of the shooting in this picture ([click here](https://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/2020-01-02/ty-article/untangling-statistics-on-palestinians-terror-attacks-on-israel-attack-in-negev-was-not-a-once-every-month-hebrew-world/0000017f-f4d5-df52-a97f-f7ffbaff0000)) is a grenade-throwing Palestinian absorbed into a crowd of good Palestinians). And while people like Zaher are not the terrorists killing the Israelis, far from it, they are the ones that fill out a petition for some rare cancer cure that does not even exist. They would be putting humanitarian prisoners on Hamas, the good-hearted revolutionaries that they are, and raising their intifadehs when the kids that they teach to talk about their 6-year-old cousin with a plastic bag over his head in a cease-fires in the middle of their 55-day war are getting slaughtered in the streets, and half of them are squeezing by with a 51% after passing the levels. They are the ones applauded on all of the major media channels, from Tara Reade to 9-Year-Old Hitler, a perfect kid in every way with the perfect name wouldn't you agree, and if any Joe America gets a word in his head that this stuff is not happening he may lose some social capital, not to be confused with the unlimited blue checks he might get if he goes the other way. Yes America, we have schools, too, and we hate westerners.

This is not ancient history either. Just weeks ago, Iran was calling for another [holocaust of the people of Israel](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-50120555).

There is good people in these countries no doubt. But to they really want to see destruction on their false freedom fighters getting bombed in a day as tragically as 6 million Jews were taken down by the Nazis in the Holocaust? Girls getting denied basic education? People getting killed in the streets for committing crimes like flying a kite onto the ground on the other side of the wall? Or hanging rainbow flags at their windowsike Ayman Al-Houeeiri screaming his last words mostly in Arabic anyways on that street in Manhattan? Good Patriots of Palestine, go and trade skins with some Israeli brothers for a summer. Then you will really know who you are.

It is not the weak, but the strong, that needs to take matters to the extremes in changing the world. We must work among the strong. An enemy cannot convince a nation to their cause, but good can be shared between people, even if they belong to different countries. Let's fight the skewer against the skewered.