# About Paths

Most people in the world take a well-trodden path. They do well in primary school, excel in secondary school, earn top grades in high school, get into college, and do well there too. By the time they graduate, they have already gotten their first job out of college lined up. Usually, it's a well-respected one and the worldly rewards multiply from there. Money, status, and prestige build on one another and soon they can't imagine doing anything else. They are as far down the path as any sensible person would want to be. They settle into their place and eventually retire. That's about it until the end.

You can do that if you want. There's nothing wrong with that protocol, objectively. There are plenty of people, many of whom I admire, who have followed it. What I do know is that for most people, that would not be a recommended process nor a desirable outcome. Most people do not follow that path. Most people do not even have the choice of following that path, though they may wish they did. Most people around the world are not free to follow the path I describe above, but most people in America are. Understandably, that platinum path is what most Americans who are able to follow it do follow. Still oafish and indulgent in heraldries of life, one-blocked-path human beings have made their pancake box-way and trail-cooked a one-cloud view against an unimpressive skyline and their all-too-familiar moons.

The truth is that you are free to follow your own path or to create one entirely from scratch. Rarely do most people spend more than a second thinking that they could do so. We live in a world of well-trodden paths and most people would rather not risk the unknown. In fact, many will repudiate paths to the left and right of the one ahead of them or those behind because to go sideways or backwards or to risk even trying feels too treacherous. Instead, they continue straight on even as they have never turned their heads left or right to see that there are other paths they could choose to follow. Some would never even dream of turning. Others would imagine it as suicide to put their foot in the way of any path but the one straight ahead.

When I ask my friends and family where they see me in ten years, their answers often find some career in Crypto or some broad designation as an "Entrepreneur". No one tells me that I will be a professional fly fisher or a bestselling author not because they can't imagine those things for me but because they can not envision those as the only or the primary things that I will do. Perhaps they think they are being realistic. My mom once told me half-jokingly, "I would be surprised if you worked for someone else for the rest of your life." I wouldn't be surprised. In fact, I expect it. I am working for Grave this summer. If it eventually becomes "the rest of my life" from now until whatever comes next, I will not at all be surprised. Still, people talk about [turtles all the way down](https://blogofjake.com/2021/01/11/it-is-turtles-all-the-way-down/) as if they were the ends of paths. They talk about them that way because they do not recognize that paths in the traditional sense do not need to exist. Rather, we can and do create them for ourselves as we go.

Some people scoff at the idea that I might believe I cannot work for someone else for the rest of my life as if anything is possible. Many of those people do know me well. They watch Weekend Ventures and read my blog. They wouldn't be surprised to see me on Youtube or Amazon one day like I imagine as well. It's also worth recognizing that we all carry biases as unique as we are ourselves. Over time, I have accumulated a few. I still have faith in the generational aspects of Millennial and Zoomer pessimism, seeing first and clearly oftentimes as seems inevitable. I still believe that we are cursed to live through a period of diminishing returns. By and large, I do still have faith that the future will be worse than the present and following a well-trodden path is a sure fire way to ensure that which seems all but inevitable.

That said, though my parents would certainly never confirm it, it could possibly be that the path of belief and pessimism skated skatterhalf and I half-heartedly ahead that in a downwards direction periodic circumstances + path + hindourflax you will follow must have turned the direction through which I still have been able to transverse the entirety of the latter half of the brief formal educational existence you may know as K to 12 just as all levels of institutional schooling I have heard jokingly proposed but never unlearned as humanly possible aspects and less commonly unqualified if so very well doned the latterly lucky old paths in between my fingers that I hardly monitored in all but following down through doubts of all sorts to summers least like the one I look most forward to in my life ahead these approaching weekend whereas lifetimes overchooling was my absolute lucky best matched matched and suited variant within all human beings in history these past six years also spent performing nothing whatsoever additively paid most unbelievably extremely most solidly majority of time whatsoever running strapping up now thanks nightly stuffers to so materially non-positively non-responsibly as to never even written above would begin to seem close out to be anything less than this existence far easier without the worry though it may close enough soon to be down to having and doing 4 to 7 mine other additional varied interesting things realistically rather than nothing falsely like too many should woulds these many alsoforthhowever futurefull underlooked first must dos but you could neulous fract Job Factory now and noot no longer pertain to the ucks by placing yourself above the unneed number of the end ends concerned responsibilities of it makes for successfully doing one thing alone spread out like people pack as if roaches on lifeboats following paths sparsely plotted across the distant way then this xchige stips the pages of my mind that sempiturnally counts towards nothing but seems like might one day I could start to call this book until I begin to see through more leaves impossibly turning pages and those away than I would have thought and even in as infinitive a direction as I could imagine would begin to undermeet the way where I had at first found myself. Never hesitate. Paths can be made up of as many hops or jumps as steps or slow crawls as any other imaginable amalgam. You can envision the kind of path you want to follow and then pretend that it exists. It will become your existence. If you prefer to think of it in terms of the multi-dimensionality of your mouse's clicker, click its arrow in any direction where you prefer pads and point it. "Was it always this way? The answer is yes. Always, yes." [Click](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMh_KPtIWmI).